# Real-time multimedia chat

## Mobile Cloud Computing Project, Group 13

### Group Members

* Tommi Askola

* Aarni Halinen 424974

* Noah Nettey

* Ilkka Oksanen

## Description

### React Native using Expo and Typescript

A [React Native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/) Chat app using the [Expo framework](https://expo.io), [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) and written in [TypeScript](http://www.typescriptlang.org). Expo has supported Typescript natively since version 31.

## Prerequisites

Install `expo-cli` globally.

```shell
npm install --global expo-cli
```

If you prefer to use yarn the command is `yarn global add expo-cli`.

Git clone.

```shell
git clone git@version.aalto.fi:CS-E4100/mcc-2018-g13.git # or
git clone https://version.aalto.fi/gitlab/CS-E4100/mcc-2018-g13.git
```

Cd to ChatApp directory and Install dependencies.

```shell
cd ChatApp && npm install
```

Download google-services.json file from Firebase and place it in ChatApp.

Check that app.json file has it included.

```json
"googleServicesFile": "./google-services.json",
```

In order for Expo to send notifications from our servers using your credentials, you'll need to upload your secret server key. You can find this key in the Firebase Console for your project:

At the top of the sidebar, click the gear icon to the right of Project Overview to go to your project settings.
Click on the Cloud Messaging tab in the Settings pane.

Copy the token listed next to Server key.

Run expo push:android:upload --api-key <your-token-here>, replacing <your-token-here> with the string you just copied. We'll store your token securely on our servers, where it will only be accessed when you send a push notification.

## Running the App

### Building the Android .apk-file

Run

```shell
npm run build
```

and download the file from link generated by Expo.

### Developing

Start the local server. This will give you a QR code that you can scan using the Expo Client app on your mobile device. The app supports hot reload.

```shell
npm start
```

If you"re on a Mac and have Xcode installed, you can run the app using the iOS Simulator with the following command. I am sure you can do something similar with Android.

```shell
npm ios
```

Other scripts

```shell
  npm run lint              # Run linter
  npm run compile           # Compile Typescript to JS, serve from dist directory
  npm run clean             # Remove dist folder (compiled code)
  npm run plop              # Create new component from a template
```

### Implemented features

#### Frontend

#### Backend

## Installation
